# Tepid-Tire-Calculator
A utility to compare the volume of two different (bicycle) tires.

# How
A bike tire is basically a torus, or at least it's close enough to a torus that we can use the volume of a torus to approximate the volume of a tire. As such, we calculate the volume of a torus based on the ISO rim diameter and tire width (like 622-40 for a 700x40c tire). We can calculate multiple tires and compare them to each other, as long as we calculate the volumes the same way.

## Really?
Yes, a tire is a poor approximation of a torus. According to the Marriam-Webster dictionary, a torus is: "a doughnut-shaped surface generated by a circle rotated about an axis in its plane that does not intersect the circle". So, right off the bat you can probably see an issue with calling a tire a torus.

If you're not familiar with how bike tires are measured, the ISO rim diameter we are using is actually the bead seat diameter (BSD). The BSD is the diameter of the bead seat, which is where the bead of the tire presses against the rim. This brings up an obvious issue - using those numbers, you would be calculating a torus where the axis *does* intersect with the circle. Furthermore, that is assuming an inflated tire is actually a circle (it's not), but it's close enough to a circle for our purposes.

# The solution
The cheap-hack-but-it-works way of fixing this is to expand the radius of the path the axis is taking by the radius of the tire. In other words, the tire is a cylinder stretched around an inner circle - so all we have to do to make the tire match the definition of a torus is to expand the inner circle a bit until it's in the center of the tire cylinder. That's easily done by adding the radius of the tire to the radius of the circle.

## Formula
We are using the following formula: V = pi * r^2 * 2 * pi * R, where V is volume, r is the minor radius, and R is the adjusted major radius. That adjustment is simply adding the minor radius (1/2 tire width) to the major radius (1/2 rim diameter), to make it closer to a proper torus shape.

## Implementation && Operation
The program should ask the user for the ISO rim diameter and tire width of the two tires to compare. This should probably feed into a two-dimensional array that we can iterate over to calculate the volume of each tire.

The program may eventually be able to take a CSV file with data inputs to compare large numbers of tires, but that's out of scope for now.
